Method References in Java 8

Method References is basically a Special type of Lambda expression when u want to use
the Method reference of the pre-defined methods of the Class

Method Reference is basically a special type of Lambda Expression that is used when you
want to use the reference of an already existing (predefined) method in a Class instead of
writing the logic again.

To Create a Method Reference

InterfaceName interfaceName = className/Interface reference(Any other Interface like List) :: method

We are assigning the method reference of the class to the interface reference

InterfaceName interfaceName = String :: toUpperCase;

:: means Method reference delimiter meaning we are referencing the method of the Class

Resuing the predefined methods of Class.

In Lambda, we have defined the whole logic. with the Method reference we can use the predefined methods.

In Lambda → we define the logic.
In Method Reference → we reuse the predefined method.

Types of Methods in Java before starting about Types of method references

Type of Method	Short Definition - Just Basic

Based on Declaration
Standard Library Methods	    Pre-built methods provided by the Java API for common tasks.
User-defined Methods	        Custom methods written by the programmer to fulfill specific program requirements.

Based on Association with Class/Object
Instance Methods (Non-static)	Methods that belong to an object instance and can access instance variables.
Static Methods (Class Methods)	Methods that belong to the class itself and can be called without creating an object.

Based on Implementation/Behavior
Abstract Methods                Methods declared without an implementation (body) in an abstract class or interface.
Concrete Methods	            Any non-abstract method that has a complete implementation (body).
Accessor Methods (Getters)	    Methods used to retrieve or read the value of an object's private variables.
Mutator Methods (Setters)	    Methods used to modify or update the value of an object's private variables.




Types of Method References:
There are four types of method references

1) Reference to Static Methods
2) Reference to Instance Methods
3) Reference to Instance methods of arbitrary object of the given type
4) Reference to Constructors

Important: Method references always be declared as a Implementation of the Functional Interface abstract method.

Important: The abstract method in the Functional Interface and the method reference method should be in same
signature(Return type parameter input)

Reference to static methods:

In Simple words -> Making the static method of the class as a method reference of the Functional Interface
abstract method implementation

Reference to Instance methods:

Make use of Instance method of the class as a method reference of the Functional Interface
abstract method implementation. As usual Instance methods of the class belongs to the object of the class.
We have to create an Object and assign. Employee e = new Employee -> e :: validUser

In case we can able to call the method reference without object creation. For the method you are referencing
should not have any arguments and also the same return type as FI abstract method. In the Interface methods there can
be arguments.

3) Reference to Instance methods of arbitrary object of the given type

Reference to Instance methods of an arbitrary object of a given type

In simple words →
We use the instance method of a class without creating an object.
The object will be provided at runtime (as the argument when the method is called).
So, the method reference can work on any object of that class.

Example:

Function<String, String> fun = String :: toLowerCase;
System.out.println(fun.apply("HELLO")); // Output: hello


Here, String :: toLowerCase means →
for any String object passed (like "HELLO"), call its toLowerCase() method.

4) Constructor reference

Same way we can make the Method reference as the class constructor method

FunctionalInterface FIInterface = Employee :: new(Means the constructor)

FIInterface.abstractMethod(parameter same as constructor) -> It will execute the logic inside the constructor

Always the constructor method reference return the object of the class. So the return type of the FI abstract
Method will always be the Class object -> Employee returnEmployee(String name, int id);

Make sure the abstract method parameter inputs.. and also have constructor with that parameter for to work.



